[CUBRIDMAN-273] Description of codeset consideration for string data in stored procedures (#647)
CUBRID/cubrid-manual: en/pl/pl_create.rst

    ERROR: Stored procedure execute error: 
      (line 5, column 9) Syntax: Unknown class "dba.test_tbl". select [dba.test_tbl].id from [dba.test_tbl] [dba.test_tbl] ...

.. _pl-string-codeset:

String Charset Considerations
======================================

All string data in CUBRID has a charset. 
In the CUBRID PL engine, string data within stored procedures and stored functions is handled using a single charset. 
No charset conversion occurs when string data is input or output.
String data is processed according to the following rules:

* The charset of **string type argument values** is assumed to be the same as the database's charset.
* The charset of **string type result values** is assumed to be the same as the database's charset.
* The charset of **string literal values** is assumed to be the same as the database's charset.

> * If the **result of an SQL query** is of string type, it is converted from the charset of the relevant column to the database's charset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the **result of an SQL query** is of string type, the value is internally converted from the column's charset to the database's charset.
```

.. note::

>     * The database's charset is specified and set using the **charset** option in the :ref:`cubrid createdb <createdb>` utility and cannot be changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The database's charset is specified using the **charset** option in the :ref:`cubrid createdb <createdb>` utility and cannot be changed after creation.
```

    * The charset of client programs that input strings to or output strings from stored procedures and stored functions should be the same as the database's charset.

The following example demonstrates a case where a string type argument is combined with the literal value '한글' to return a result. 
It is assumed that the charset of the string type argument, result, and literal value is the same as the database's charset. 
Therefore, to execute the following SQL statement correctly, it must be stored and executed with UTF-8 encoding.

.. code-block:: sql

    CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION test_func (arg VARCHAR) RETURN VARCHAR
    AS
    BEGIN
        RETURN arg || ',' || '한글';
    END;

    SELECT test_func('큐브리드');

::

    test_func('큐브리드')
    =====================

>                     큐브리드,한글

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      큐브리드,한글
```

By default, the charset of the result of an SQL query follows the database's charset, but it can be explicitly specified as described in :ref:`collation-charset-column`. 
The following example shows that when the database's charset is set to UTF-8 and the column's charset is set to EUC-KR, the charset of the query result string is internally converted from EUC-KR to UTF-8.

.. code-block:: sql

    -- This file should be saved in euc-kr, and '큐브리드' should be written with euc-kr encoding.
    CREATE TABLE tblcharcol (col STRING CHARSET euckr) COLLATE euckr_bin;
    INSERT INTO tblcharcol VALUES ('큐브리드');

.. code-block:: sql

    -- This file should be saved in utf-8, and '한글' should be written with utf-8 encoding.
    CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION test_func () RETURN VARCHAR
    AS
        v VARCHAR;
    BEGIN
        SELECT col INTO v FROM tblcharcol LIMIT 1;
        RETURN v || '한글';
    END;

    SELECT test_func();

::

    test_func()
    =============

>                     큐브리드한글

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      큐브리드한글
```
